docs/api.rst, before:

.. _api:

Accessing Data outside of LNT: REST API
=======================================

LNT provides REST APIs to access data stored in the LNT database.


Endpoints
---------

The API endpoints live under the top level api path, and have the same database and test-suite layout. For example::

    http://lnt.llvm.org/db_default/v4/nts/machine/1330
    Maps to:
    http://lnt.llvm.org/api/db_default/v4/nts/machines/1330

The machines endpoint allows access to all the machines, and properties and runs collected for them. The runs endpoint
will fetch run and sample data. The samples endpoint allows for the bulk export of samples from a number of runs at
once.

+---------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Endpoint                  | Description                                                                              |
+---------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| /machines/                | List all the machines in this testsuite.                                                 |
+---------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| /machines/`id`            | Get all the runs info and machine fields for machine `id`.                               |
+---------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| /runs/`id`                | Get all the run info and sample data for one run `id`.                                   |
+---------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| /orders/`id`              | Get all order info for Order `id`.                                                       |
+---------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| /samples?runid=1&runid=2  | Retrieve all the sample data for a list of run ids.  Run IDs should be pass as args.     |
|                           | Will return sample data in the samples section, as a list of dicts, with a key for       |
|                           | each metric type. Empty samples are not sent.                                            |
+---------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| /samples/`id`             | Get all non-empty sample info for Sample `id`.                                           |
+---------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| /schema                   | Return test suite schema.                                                                |
+---------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| /fields                   | Return all fields in this testsuite.                                                     |
+---------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| /tests                    | Return all tests in this testsuite.                                                      |
+---------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

.. _auth_tokens:

Write Operations
----------------

The machines, orders and runs endpoints also support the DELETE http method.  The user must include a http header called
"AuthToken" which has the API auth token set in the LNT instance configuration.

The API Auth token can be set by adding `api_auth_token` to the instances lnt.cfg config file::

    # API Auth Token
    api_auth_token = "SomeSecret"

Example::

    curl --request DELETE --header "AuthToken: SomeSecret" http://localhost:8000/api/db_default/v4/nts/runs/1

Commit message:

Docs for graph_for_sample
It is useful when using the API endpoints.

git-svn-id: https://llvm.org/svn/llvm-project/lnt/trunk@334050 91177308-0d34-0410-b5e6-96231b3b80d8

docs/api.rst, after:

.. _api:

Accessing Data outside of LNT: REST API
=======================================

LNT provides REST APIs to access data stored in the LNT database.


Endpoints
---------

The API endpoints live under the top level api path, and have the same database and test-suite layout. For example::

    http://lnt.llvm.org/db_default/v4/nts/machine/1330
    Maps to:
    http://lnt.llvm.org/api/db_default/v4/nts/machines/1330

The machines endpoint allows access to all the machines, and properties and runs collected for them. The runs endpoint
will fetch run and sample data. The samples endpoint allows for the bulk export of samples from a number of runs at
once.

+---------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Endpoint                        | Description                                                                        |
+---------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| /machines/                      | List all the machines in this testsuite.                                           |
+---------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| /machines/`id`                  | Get all the runs info and machine fields for machine `id`.                         |
+---------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| /runs/`id`                      | Get all the run info and sample data for one run `id`.                             |
+---------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| /orders/`id`                    | Get all order info for Order `id`.                                                 |
+---------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| /samples?runid=1&runid=2        | Retrieve all the sample data for a list of run ids.  Run IDs should be pass as args|
|                                 | Will return sample data in the samples section, as a list of dicts, with a key for |
|                                 | each metric type. Empty samples are not sent.                                      |
+---------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| /samples/`id`                   | Get all non-empty sample info for Sample `id`.                                     |
+---------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| /schema                         | Return test suite schema.                                                          |
+---------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| /fields                         | Return all fields in this testsuite.                                               |
+---------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| /tests                          | Return all tests in this testsuite.                                                |
+---------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| /graph_for_sample/`id`/`f_name` | Redirect to a graph which contains the sample with ID `id` and the field           |
|                                 | `f_name`.  This can be used to generate a link to a graph based on the sample data |
|                                 | that is returned by the run API. Any parameters passed to this endpoint are        |
|                                 | appended to the graph URL to control formatting etc of the graph. Note, this       |
|                                 | endpoint is not under /api/, but matches the graph URL location.                   |
+---------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

.. _auth_tokens:

Write Operations
----------------

The machines, orders and runs endpoints also support the DELETE http method.  The user must include a http header called
"AuthToken" which has the API auth token set in the LNT instance configuration.

The API Auth token can be set by adding `api_auth_token` to the instances lnt.cfg config file::

    # API Auth Token
    api_auth_token = "SomeSecret"

Example::

    curl --request DELETE --header "AuthToken: SomeSecret" http://localhost:8000/api/db_default/v4/nts/runs/1
