docs/developer_guide.rst, before:

.. _developer_guide:

Developer Guide
===============

This developer guide aims to get you started with developing LNT. At the
moment, a lot of detailed info is missing, but hopefully this will get you
started.

Installation
------------

See :ref:`quickstart` for setting up an installation. Use the "develop" option
when running ~/lnt/setup.py.

Running LNT's Regression Tests
------------------------------

LNT has a growing body of regression tests that makes it easier to improve LNT
without accidentally breaking existing functionality. Just like when developing
most other LLVM sub-projects, you should consider adding regression tests for
every feature you add or every bug you fix. The regression tests must pass at
all times, therefore you should run the regression tests as part of your
development work-flow, just like you do when developing on other LLVM
sub-projects.

The LNT regression tests make use of lit and other tools like FileCheck. At
the moment, probably the easiest way to get them installed is to compile LLVM
and use the binaries that are generated there. Assuming you've build LLVM
into $LLVMBUILD, you can run the regression tests using the following command::

     PATH=$LLVMBUILD/bin:$PATH llvm-lit -sv ./tests

If you don't like temporary files being created in your LNT source directory,
you can run the tests in a different directory too::

     mkdir ../run_lnt_tests
     cd ../run_lnt_tests
     PATH=$LLVMBUILD/bin:$PATH llvm-lit -sv ../lnt/tests

For simple changes, adding a regression test and making sure all regression
tests pass, is often a good enough testing approach. For some changes, the
existing regression tests aren't good enough at the moment, and manual testing
will be needed. For any changes that touch on the LNT database design, you'll
need to run tests on at least sqlite and postgress database engines.  By
default, LNT uses sqlite, and most of the regression tests still use a
temporary sqlite database to run tests against. Therefore, at the moment,
you'll probably need to do some manual testing on a setup with a postgress
database if you touch database functionality.

Commit message:

Make it possible to run unit tests against a Postgres database instead of a sqlite database.
Differential Revision: http://reviews.llvm.org/D13163


git-svn-id: https://llvm.org/svn/llvm-project/lnt/trunk@248787 91177308-0d34-0410-b5e6-96231b3b80d8

docs/developer_guide.rst, after:

.. _developer_guide:

Developer Guide
===============

This developer guide aims to get you started with developing LNT. At the
moment, a lot of detailed info is missing, but hopefully this will get you
started.

Installation
------------

See :ref:`quickstart` for setting up an installation. Use the "develop" option
when running ~/lnt/setup.py.

Running LNT's Regression Tests
------------------------------

LNT has a growing body of regression tests that makes it easier to improve LNT
without accidentally breaking existing functionality. Just like when developing
most other LLVM sub-projects, you should consider adding regression tests for
every feature you add or every bug you fix. The regression tests must pass at
all times, therefore you should run the regression tests as part of your
development work-flow, just like you do when developing on other LLVM
sub-projects.

The LNT regression tests make use of lit and other tools like FileCheck. At
the moment, probably the easiest way to get them installed is to compile LLVM
and use the binaries that are generated there. Assuming you've build LLVM
into $LLVMBUILD, you can run the regression tests using the following command::

     PATH=$LLVMBUILD/bin:$PATH llvm-lit -sv ./tests

If you don't like temporary files being created in your LNT source directory,
you can run the tests in a different directory too::

     mkdir ../run_lnt_tests
     cd ../run_lnt_tests
     PATH=$LLVMBUILD/bin:$PATH llvm-lit -sv ../lnt/tests

For simple changes, adding a regression test and making sure all regression
tests pass, is often a good enough testing approach. For some changes, the
existing regression tests aren't good enough at the moment, and manual testing
will be needed.

For any changes that touch on the LNT database design, you'll need to run tests
on at least sqlite and postgres database engines.  By default the regression
tests uses sqlite. To run the regression tests against a postgress database,
use a command like the following::

     PATH=$LLVMBUILD/bin:$PATH llvm-lit -sv -Dpostgres='postgresql://lnt:lnt@127.0.0.1' ../lnt/tests

The argument to -Dpostgres needs to be a postgres URI for a postgres role
that is allowed to create databases. One example to set up such a user is::

     sudo -u postgres psql
     CREATE USER lnt_test PASSWORD 'lnt_test';
     CREATE DATABASE lnt_test OWNER = lnt_test;
     ALTER USER lnt_test CREATEDB;

You'll need to use at least postgres version 9.2 to run the regression tests.
