docs/intro.rst, before:

.. _intro:

Introduction
============

LNT is designed to be a generic infastrcture for performance testing. The LNT
software itself consists of two main parts, a web application for accessing and
visualizing performance data, and command line utilities to allow users to
generate and submit test results to the server.

If you are an LLVM developer who is mostly interested in just using LNT to run
the test-suite against some compiler, then you should fast forward to the
:ref:`quickstart` or to the information on :ref:`tests`.

LNT uses a simple and extensible format for interchanging data between the test
producers and the server; this allows the LNT server to receive and store data
for a wide variety of applications.

Both the LNT client and server are written in Python, however the test data
itself can be passed in one of several formats, including property lists and
JSON. This makes it easy to produce test results from almost any language.


Installation
------------

If you are only interested in using LNT to run tests locally, see the
:ref:`quickstart`.

If you want to run an LNT server, you will need to perform the following
additional steps:

 2. Create a new LNT installation:

      lnt create path/to/install-dir

    This will create the LNT configuration file, the default database, and a
    .wsgi wrapper to create the application. You can execute the generated app
    directly to run with the builtin web server, or use 

      lnt runserver path/to/install-dir

    which provides additional command line options. Neither of these servers is
    recommended for production use.

 3. Edit the generated 'lnt.cfg' file if necessary, for example to:

    a. Update the databases list.

    b. Update the public URL the server is visible at.

    c. Update the nt_emailer configuration.

 4. Add the 'lnt.wsgi' app to your Apache configuration. You should set also
    configure the WSGIDaemonProcess and WSGIProcessGroup variables if not
    already done.

    If running in a virtualenv you will need to configure that as well; see the
    `modwsgi wiki <http://code.google.com/p/modwsgi/wiki/VirtualEnvironments>`_.


Development
-----------

Developing LNT should be done under a virtualenv (most likely in 'develop'
mode). Currently, the tests require:

 1. 'lit', the LLVM test runner, is available.

 2. If inside a virtualenv, the virtualenv will need to be activated because the
 tests want to run Python directly. This should be fixed to substitute in the
 Python that was used to run lit, so the venv doesn't have to be active.

To run the tests use, e.g.::

  lit -sv $ROOT/tests

This requires the 'lit' testing tool be installed. You can also use::

  python setup.py test

if you prefer 'unittest' style output (this still requires that 'lit' be
installed).


Architecture
------------

The LNT web app is currently implemented as a Flask WSGI web app, with Jinja2
for the templating engine. My hope is to eventually move to a more AJAXy web
interface.

The database layer uses SQLAlchemy for its ORM, and is typically backed by
SQLite, although I have tested on MySQL on the past, and supporting other
databases should be trivial. My plan is to always support SQLite as this allows
the possibility of developers easily running their own LNT installation for
viewing nightly test results, and to run with whatever DB makes the most sense
on the server.

Commit message:

Add a long description for the package and remove an unused package_data item.  - Also, bump the minor version.
git-svn-id: https://llvm.org/svn/llvm-project/lnt/trunk@154152 91177308-0d34-0410-b5e6-96231b3b80d8

docs/intro.rst, after:

.. _intro:

Introduction
============

*LNT* is an infrastructure for performance testing. The software itself consists
of two main parts, a web application for accessing and visualizing performance
data, and command line utilities to allow users to generate and submit test
results to the server.

The package was originally written for use in testing LLVM compiler
technologies, but is designed to be usable for the performance testing of any
software.

If you are an LLVM developer who is mostly interested in just using LNT to run
the test-suite against some compiler, then you should fast forward to the
:ref:`quickstart` or to the information on :ref:`tests`.

LNT uses a simple and extensible format for interchanging data between the test
producers and the server; this allows the LNT server to receive and store data
for a wide variety of applications.

Both the LNT client and server are written in Python, however the test data
itself can be passed in one of several formats, including property lists and
JSON. This makes it easy to produce test results from almost any language.


Installation
------------

If you are only interested in using LNT to run tests locally, see the
:ref:`quickstart`.

If you want to run an LNT server, you will need to perform the following
additional steps:

 2. Create a new LNT installation:

      lnt create path/to/install-dir

    This will create the LNT configuration file, the default database, and a
    .wsgi wrapper to create the application. You can execute the generated app
    directly to run with the builtin web server, or use 

      lnt runserver path/to/install-dir

    which provides additional command line options. Neither of these servers is
    recommended for production use.

 3. Edit the generated 'lnt.cfg' file if necessary, for example to:

    a. Update the databases list.

    b. Update the public URL the server is visible at.

    c. Update the nt_emailer configuration.

 4. Add the 'lnt.wsgi' app to your Apache configuration. You should set also
    configure the WSGIDaemonProcess and WSGIProcessGroup variables if not
    already done.

    If running in a virtualenv you will need to configure that as well; see the
    `modwsgi wiki <http://code.google.com/p/modwsgi/wiki/VirtualEnvironments>`_.


Development
-----------

Developing LNT should be done under a virtualenv (most likely in 'develop'
mode). Currently, the tests require:

 1. 'lit', the LLVM test runner, is available.

 2. If inside a virtualenv, the virtualenv will need to be activated because the
 tests want to run Python directly. This should be fixed to substitute in the
 Python that was used to run lit, so the venv doesn't have to be active.

To run the tests use, e.g.::

  lit -sv $ROOT/tests

This requires the 'lit' testing tool be installed. You can also use::

  python setup.py test

if you prefer 'unittest' style output (this still requires that 'lit' be
installed).


Architecture
------------

The LNT web app is currently implemented as a Flask WSGI web app, with Jinja2
for the templating engine. My hope is to eventually move to a more AJAXy web
interface.

The database layer uses SQLAlchemy for its ORM, and is typically backed by
SQLite, although I have tested on MySQL on the past, and supporting other
databases should be trivial. My plan is to always support SQLite as this allows
the possibility of developers easily running their own LNT installation for
viewing nightly test results, and to run with whatever DB makes the most sense
on the server.
