docs/quickstart.rst, before:

.. _quickstart:

Quickstart Guide
================

This quickstart guide is designed for LLVM developers who are primarily
interested in using LNT to test compilers using the LLVM test-suite.

Installation
------------

The first thing to do is to checkout install the LNT software itself. The
following steps should suffice on any modern Unix variant:

#. Install ``virtualenv``, if necessary::

           sudo easy_install virtualenv

   ``virtualenv`` is a standard Python tool for allowing the installation of
   Python applications into their own sandboxes, or virtual environments.

#. Create a new virtual environment for the LNT application::

            virtualenv ~/mysandbox

   This will create a new virtual environment at ``~/mysandbox``.

#. Checkout the LNT sources::

            svn co http://llvm.org/svn/llvm-project/lnt/trunk ~/lnt

#. Install LNT into the virtual environment::

           ~/mysandbox/bin/python ~/lnt/setup.py develop

   We recommend using ``develop`` instead of install for local use, so that any
   changes to the LNT sources are immediately propagated to your
   installation. If you are running a production install or care a lot about
   stability, you can use ``install`` which will copy in the sources and you
   will need to explicitly re-install when you wish to update the LNT
   application.

That's it!


Running Tests
-------------

To execute the LLVM test-suite using LNT you use the ``lnt runtest``
command. The information below should be enough to get you started, but see the
:ref:`tests` section for more complete documentation.

#. Checkout the LLVM test-suite, if you haven't already::

     svn co http://llvm.org/svn/llvm-project/test-suite/trunk ~/llvm-test-suite

   You should always keep the test-suite directory itself clean (that is, never
   do a configure inside your test suite). Make sure not to check it out into
   the LLVM projects directory, as LLVM's configure/make build will then want to
   automatically configure it for you.

#. Execute the ``lnt runtest nt`` test producer, point it at the test suite and
   the compiler you want to test::

     lnt runtest nt \
         --sandbox SANDBOX \
         --cc ~/llvm.obj/Release/bin/clang \
         --test-suite ~/llvm-test-suite

   The ``SANDBOX`` value is a path to where the test suite build products and
   results will be stored (inside a timestamped directory, by default).


Viewing Results
---------------

By default, ``lnt runtest nt`` will show the passes and failures after doing a
run, but if you are interested in viewing the result data in more detail you
should install a local LNT instance to submit the results to.

You can create a local LNT instance with, e.g.::

    lnt create ~/myperfdb

This will create an LNT instance at ``~/myperfdb`` which includes the
configuration of the LNT application and a SQLite database for storing the
results.

Once you have a local instance, you can either submit results directly with::

     lnt import --commit=1 ~/myperfdb SANDBOX/test-<stamp>/report.json

or as part of a run with::

     lnt runtest --submit ~/myperfdb nt ... arguments ...

Once you have submitted results into a database, you can run the LNT web UI
with::

     lnt runserver ~/myperfdb

which runs the server on ``http://localhost:8000`` by default.

In the future, LNT will grow a robust set of command line tools to allow
investigation of performance results without having to use the web UI.

Commit message:

Add a few hints on how to reduce noisiness.
Differential Revision: https://reviews.llvm.org/D30488


git-svn-id: https://llvm.org/svn/llvm-project/lnt/trunk@297002 91177308-0d34-0410-b5e6-96231b3b80d8

docs/quickstart.rst, after:

.. _quickstart:

Quickstart Guide
================

This quickstart guide is designed for LLVM developers who are primarily
interested in using LNT to test compilers using the LLVM test-suite.

Installation
------------

The first thing to do is to checkout install the LNT software itself. The
following steps should suffice on any modern Unix variant:

#. Install ``virtualenv``, if necessary::

           sudo easy_install virtualenv

   ``virtualenv`` is a standard Python tool for allowing the installation of
   Python applications into their own sandboxes, or virtual environments.

#. Create a new virtual environment for the LNT application::

            virtualenv ~/mysandbox

   This will create a new virtual environment at ``~/mysandbox``.

#. Checkout the LNT sources::

            svn co http://llvm.org/svn/llvm-project/lnt/trunk ~/lnt

#. Install LNT into the virtual environment::

           ~/mysandbox/bin/python ~/lnt/setup.py develop

   We recommend using ``develop`` instead of install for local use, so that any
   changes to the LNT sources are immediately propagated to your
   installation. If you are running a production install or care a lot about
   stability, you can use ``install`` which will copy in the sources and you
   will need to explicitly re-install when you wish to update the LNT
   application.

That's it!


Running Tests
-------------

To execute the LLVM test-suite using LNT you use the ``lnt runtest``
command. The information below should be enough to get you started, but see the
:ref:`tests` section for more complete documentation.

#. Checkout the LLVM test-suite, if you haven't already::

     svn co http://llvm.org/svn/llvm-project/test-suite/trunk ~/llvm-test-suite

   You should always keep the test-suite directory itself clean (that is, never
   do a configure inside your test suite). Make sure not to check it out into
   the LLVM projects directory, as LLVM's configure/make build will then want to
   automatically configure it for you.

#. Execute the ``lnt runtest nt`` test producer, point it at the test suite and
   the compiler you want to test::

     lnt runtest nt \
         --sandbox SANDBOX \
         --cc ~/llvm.obj/Release/bin/clang \
         --test-suite ~/llvm-test-suite

   The ``SANDBOX`` value is a path to where the test suite build products and
   results will be stored (inside a timestamped directory, by default).

#. On most systems, the execution time results will be a bit noisy. There are
   a range of things you can do to reduce noisiness (with LNT runtest nt
   command line options when available between brackets):

   * Only build the benchmarks in parallel, but do the actual running of the
     benchmark code at most one at a time. (``--threads 1 --build-threads 6``).
     Of course, when you're also interested in the measured compile time,
     you should also build sequentially. (``--threads 1 --build-threads 1``).
   * When running under linux: Make lnt use linux perf to get more accurate
     timing for short-running benchmarks (``--use-perf=1``)
   * Pin the running benchmark to a specific core, so the OS doesn't move the
     benchmark process from core to core. (Under linux:
     ``--make-param="RUNUNDER=taskset -c 1"``)
   * Only run the programs that are marked as a benchmark; some of the tests
     in the test-suite are not intended to be used as a benchmark.
     (``--benchmarking-only``)
   * Make sure each program gets run multiple times, so that LNT has a higher
     chance of recognizing which programs are inherently noisy
     (``--multisample=5``)
   * Disable frequency scaling / turbo boost. In case of thermal throttling it
     can skew the results.
   * Disable as many processes or services as possible on the target system.


Viewing Results
---------------

By default, ``lnt runtest nt`` will show the passes and failures after doing a
run, but if you are interested in viewing the result data in more detail you
should install a local LNT instance to submit the results to.

You can create a local LNT instance with, e.g.::

    lnt create ~/myperfdb

This will create an LNT instance at ``~/myperfdb`` which includes the
configuration of the LNT application and a SQLite database for storing the
results.

Once you have a local instance, you can either submit results directly with::

     lnt import --commit=1 ~/myperfdb SANDBOX/test-<stamp>/report.json

or as part of a run with::

     lnt runtest --submit ~/myperfdb nt ... arguments ...

Once you have submitted results into a database, you can run the LNT web UI
with::

     lnt runserver ~/myperfdb

which runs the server on ``http://localhost:8000`` by default.

In the future, LNT will grow a robust set of command line tools to allow
investigation of performance results without having to use the web UI.
